Complete end to end mobile automation for AI tutor app:
------------------------------------------------------

1️⃣ What is Mobile Automation?
           Mobile automation is the process of automatically validating mobile app flows using
           tools instead of manual actions.

2️⃣ APPIUM EXECUTION FLOW ( ARCHITECTURE ) — STEP BY STEP (ANDROID):
   ----------------------------------------------

Step 1: Write automation code
You write Python automation scripts in PyCharm
You use Appium Python Client APIs

Step 2: Python → JSON conversion
Appium Python Client converts Python commands
Converts them into WebDriver JSON commands
Reason: Appium Server understands only JSON (WebDriver protocol)

Step 3: Appium Server receives commands
Appium Server receives the JSON commands over HTTP
This includes Desired Capabilities during session creation

Step 4: Read Desired Capabilities
Appium Server reads:
platformName
automationName
deviceName
app / appPackage / appActivity

Step 5: Decide the driver
Based on capabilities:
platformName = Android
automationName = UIAutomator2
Appium Server selects UIAutomator2 driver

Step 6: Connect to Android device
Appium uses Android SDK tools
Mainly ADB to:
Detect connected device/emulator
Communicate with device

Step 7: Install UIAutomator2 server
Appium installs:
uiautomator2-server.apk
uiautomator2-server-test.apk
These APKs are installed on the Android device

Step 8: Start UIAutomator2 server
UIAutomator2 server starts running inside the device
It listens for commands from Appium Server

Step 9: UIAutomator2 framework is used
UIAutomator2 server uses:
UIAutomator2 framework
This framework is already part of Android OS / Android SDK
Appium does NOT install the framework

Step 10: Execute automation commands
When you write:
driver.find_element().click()
Flow:
Python script
→ JSON command
→ Appium Server
→ UIAutomator2 Driver
→ UIAutomator2 Server (on device)
→ UIAutomator2 Framework
→ Android OS
→ App UI

Step 11: Response travels back
Result (success/failure) travels back the same path
Your Python script receives the response

Step 12: Session continues or ends
Commands keep executing under the same session
When done:
driver.quit()
Appium stops session and cleans up

🧱 PHASE 1 — MOBILE FUNDAMENTALS:  ( 10–15 core concepts matter for automation )
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1️⃣ Types of Mobile Applications:
           - Native Apps: Built for specific platforms (iOS/Android) using platform-specific languages.
             Locators used for native apps:   ( 1 to 3 are most used )
            1️⃣ resource-id ✅ (BEST)
            2️⃣ accessibility id (or content-desc) ✅ (VERY GOOD)
            3️⃣ Android UIAutomator (advanced locator)   - used for scroll / Partial_text / Dynamic elements
            4️⃣ class name ⚠️ (Limited use)
            5️⃣ text    - used via XPath and Android UIAutomator
            6️⃣ XPath   - used for complex hierarchies ( text/resource-id/content-desc/contains/multiple_conditions)
            7️⃣ index ❌ (Avoid)


           - Web Apps: Accessible via mobile browsers, built with web technologies.
             Locators used for web apps:   ( 1 to 3 are most used )
            1️⃣ id ✅ (BEST)
            2️⃣ css selector ✅ (VERY GOOD)
            3️⃣ name ✅ (GOOD)
            4️⃣ xpath ⚠️ (FLEXIBLE)
            5️⃣ class name ⚠️ (LIMITED)
            6️⃣ link text ⚠️ (LIMITED)
            7️⃣ partial link text ⚠️ (RARE)
            8️⃣ tag name ⚠️ (VERY LIMITED)

           - Hybrid Apps: Combine native and web technologies for cross-platform compatibility.

2️⃣ APK vs AAB:
    1. We use APK for automation because it is directly installable.
    2. AAB is only a Play Store publishing format, not directly installable for testing.

3️⃣ App Lifecycle (Very Important for Automation):
        🧱 >>>>>
        👉 These states can appear unexpectedly (permission popup, notification, low memory, etc.).
        👉 We may not know exactly when they will happen.
        👉 But in automation, we must handle them properly to avoid test failures.
        That’s why understanding App Lifecycle = stability in tests 🔥
        🔹 Pure App Lifecycle States (Core)
        1️⃣ App launch
        2️⃣ App in foreground
        3️⃣ Permission / popup (Paused)
        4️⃣ App in background
        5️⃣ App killed / crash

4️⃣ Emulator vs Real Device:
        🤖 Automation Industry Practice
        70% execution → Emulator
        30% validation → Real device
        Before release → Always real device

5️⃣ Permissions & System Interruptions:
        🧱 Lifecycle handling includes managing permission popups and interruptions.

6️⃣ App Crash & ANR ( Application Not Responding ) (Very Important):
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:

7️⃣ Logcat & Logs (Very Important for Debugging):
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:

8️⃣ Network Behavior (WiFi / Offline / Slow Internet):
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:

9️⃣ OS Fragmentation & Screen Sizes (Very Important in Mobile):
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:

1️⃣0️⃣ Deep Links (Very Useful in Automation):
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:

1️⃣1️⃣ App Install / Uninstall / Upgrade Behavior:
👉 Yes ✅ — Install / Upgrade testing should be separate tests.

Runs:
Before release
During regression
Not every CI run

1️⃣2️⃣ Background Services & Notifications:
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:

1️⃣3️⃣ Debug vs Release Builds:
    Daily automation → Debug build
    Pre-release regression → Release build

1️⃣4️⃣ Mobile Gestures (Core for Automation)

    Tap
    Long Press
    Swipe
    Scroll
    Drag & Drop
    Multi-touch
    Hide Keyboard
    Used in 80% of mobile automation flows.

1️⃣ Test data strategy (static vs dynamic data handling)
2️⃣ Retry mechanism (for flaky tests)
3️⃣ Parallel execution strategy
4️⃣ Reporting + logging structure (industry level)

👉  THESE COVERS 95% of Stability for app+device+os

🚀 Phase 2 – Tool Stack Mastery:
-------------------------------
    Python
    PyTest
    Appium 2.x    ( Engineer Level)
    Android Studio
    ADB
    Git
    Allure Reporting


Android Studio:
    When you start one emulator (virtual device):
    What happens internally:
    1️⃣ Emulator process starts on your PC
    2️⃣ It opens two ports automatically
    Example:
    5554 → Console port
    5555 → ADB communication port
    3️⃣ Inside emulator → adbd (ADB daemon) starts
    4️⃣ On your PC → adb server (port 5037) is already running
    5️⃣ adb server connects to emulator’s ADB port (5555)
    6️⃣ Device gets registered in adb device list ✅


ADB: ( Android Debugging Bridge )
🔹 1️⃣ ADB Architecture (Complete Flow)
ADB = 3 components:
1️⃣ ADB Client
→ Command you type (adb devices, adb install)
2️⃣ ADB Server
→ Background process on PC (port 5037)
3️⃣ adbd (Daemon)
→ Runs inside Android device/emulator

ADB Commands:

adb devices          → Check connected devices/emulators
adb install app.apk  → Install APK manually
adb uninstall packagename    → Remove installed app
adb shell            → Enter device command line
adb logcat           → View real-time device logs
adb kill-server      → Stop adb server (reset connection)
adb start-server     → Start adb server again
adb forward          → Forward PC port → device port (used by Appium UiAutomator2)
adb reverse          → Reverse device port → PC port
adb shell pm list packages → List installed packages
adb shell dumpsys activity → Get current running activity
adb shell am start   → Launch specific activity manually
adb shell getprop    → Get device system properties


🔧 Setup Phase includes:
Android Studio
SDK
ADB
Emulator / real device
Appium 2.x installation
Driver installation (appium driver install uiautomator2)
Environment variables
Node setup
All this must be 100% stable first.

1. node -v
2. npm -v
3. npm install -g appium   / npm uninstall -g appium    / npm install -g appium@2 ( for 2.0.0 )
4. appium driver install uiautomator2 / appium driver install uiautomator2@2  ( for 2.0.0 )
5. verify - appium driver list

PACKAGES:
pip install Appium-Python-Client
pip install pytest
pip install pytest-xdist
pip install pytest-html   ( optional )
pip install selenium
pip install allure-pytest
pip freeze > requirements.txt   -  It will install all the dependencies


⭐ Maximum detailed (server + driver both debug)
appium --log-level debug:debug
This is basically Appium 2 replacement for trace 👍


IF APPIUM INSPECTOR FAILED / IF Old stuck UiAutomator2 process on device ( SessionException )
adb shell ps | findstr uiautomator

If you see old processes → that’s the issue.

adb shell am force-stop io.appium.uiautomator2.server
adb shell am force-stop io.appium.uiautomator2.server.test

Advanced appium plugins:
-----------------------
1️⃣ images plugin
Used for image-based automation (when no locator exists).

2️⃣ relaxed-security plugin
Allows execution of restricted features like shell commands.

Scopes how sesion needs to passed inside tests:
----------------------------------------------
"function" → one driver per test
"class" → One driver per class
"module" → One driver per file
"session" → One driver for entire test run

Ways to get appPackage and appActivity:
--------------------------------------
adb shell dumpsys window | findstr mCurrentFocus     -  Both appPackage and appActivity

Ways to install apk into Emulator:
---------------------------------
🔹 Install APK using ADB
   adb install appname.apk

🔹 Unistall APK using ADB
   adb uninstall com.android.chrome

🔹 If app already installed and you want to reinstall:
   adb install -r appname.apk

🔹 If multiple devices connected:
   adb -s emulator-5554 install appname.apk

🔹 If multiple devices connected:
   adb -s emulator-5554 uninstall appname.apk

✅ 3️⃣ Install via Appium (During Session Creation)
options.app = "path_to_apk"

✅ 1️⃣ Drag & Drop


🧱 PHASE 3 — APPIUM CORE (NON-NEGOTIABLE):
-----------------------------------------
🚀 Topic 1: Driver Lifecycle (Notes)
1️⃣ Session Creation
webdriver.Remote() connects to Appium Server
Desired Capabilities are sent
Appium selects driver (UiAutomator2)
UiAutomator2 server APK installed (if needed)
Session ID is generated
Session becomes ACTIVE

2️⃣ Command Execution Phase
All commands run under same Session ID
Example: find_element, click, send_keys

Commands travel:
Python → Appium Server → UiAutomator2 → Device

3️⃣ new_command_timeout
Defined in capabilities
Example: new_command_timeout = 300
If no command sent for 300 seconds
Appium Server automatically kills session
Next command → invalid session id

Timer runs in: Appium Server
4️⃣ Normal Session Termination
When driver.quit() is called:
Appium sends DELETE /session
Stops UiAutomator2 server
Cleans port forwarding
Frees resources
Session destroyed successfully

5️⃣ Abnormal Termination
Session can die due to:
App crash
Emulator disconnect
ADB crash
Appium server stopped
Timeout
Error seen: invalid session id

🚀 Topic 2: Desired Capabilities (Deep Understanding)
1️⃣ What Are Desired Capabilities?

They are:

👉 Configuration settings
👉 Sent during session creation
👉 Tell Appium how to start automation

They are sent only once — during webdriver.Remote().

2️⃣ Types of Capabilities
🔹 Mandatory (Basic)
platformName
deviceName
automationName
Without these → session won’t start.

🔹 App Related
app (path to APK)
appPackage
appActivity
Tells which app to launch.

🔹 Reset Behavior
noReset
fullReset

Controls app data behavior.
🔹 Stability & Timeout
newCommandTimeout
autoGrantPermissions
Improves stability.

3️⃣ When Are Capabilities Used?
Only during:
POST /session
After session is created →
Capabilities cannot be changed.
If you want to change capability →
You must create new session.

4️⃣ How They Travel
Options object
→ Converted to JSON
→ Sent to Appium Server
→ Driver reads them
→ Driver configures device

🚀 UiAutomator2 Internal Working (Deep)
Very important. Most people don’t understand this properly.

📒 UiAutomator2 — Internal Flow Notes
1️⃣ What is UiAutomator2?

👉 Android automation engine
👉 Built into Android framework
👉 Appium uses it to control Android apps

Appium does NOT control device directly.
UiAutomator2 does.

2️⃣ What Happens During Session Creation?
When session starts:
1️⃣ Appium installs:
uiautomator2-server.apk
uiautomator2-server-test.apk
2️⃣ Appium starts Android instrumentation
3️⃣ UiAutomator2 server runs inside device
4️⃣ Appium forwards a port using ADB
5️⃣ Communication starts between:
Appium Server ↔ UiAutomator2 Server
3️⃣ Command Execution Flow
When you write:
driver.find_element().click()

Flow:

Python
→ Appium Server
→ UiAutomator2 Driver
→ UiAutomator2 Server (on device)
→ Android Framework
→ App UI
Response travels back same path.

4️⃣ Why UiAutomator2 Is Important?
Supports Android 5+
More stable than old UiAutomator1
Supports modern Android features
Handles parallel execution (with systemPort)
5️⃣ What If UiAutomator2 Server Crashes?
Then:
Session becomes invalid
You get invalid session id
Need new session

🚀 Topic 5: Session Crash & Recovery Handling

This is real project knowledge. Very important.
📒 1️⃣ What is Session Crash?
Session crash means:
👉 Appium session becomes invalid
👉 Session ID no longer usable
👉 Commands start failing

Error usually seen:
invalid session id

📒 2️⃣ What Can Kill a Session?
🔹 App Crash
If app crashes → UiAutomator2 loses connection → session dies.
🔹 Emulator Disconnect
If emulator closes → ADB disconnects → session dies.
🔹 ADB Restart
If someone runs:
adb kill-server
Session dies.

🔹 Appium Server Stopped
If you close CMD → all sessions die.
🔹 newCommandTimeout
If no command for X seconds → server kills session.
🔹 UiAutomator2 Crash
If automation engine crashes inside device → session invalid.
📒 3️⃣ What Happens After Crash?
Driver object still exists in Python
But session ID is invalid
Any next command → throws error
Example:
driver.find_element()
→ invalid session id

📒 4️⃣ How Engineers Handle This?

In real frameworks:
✔ Proper logging
✔ Retry mechanism
✔ Recreate driver session if needed
✔ Fail test cleanly (don’t hang)

📒 5️⃣ Interview Important Point
Session is controlled by:
👉 Appium Server
Client cannot recover dead session.
Must create new session.

🚀 Topic 6: Parallel Execution (Very Important)
This is real engineer-level topic.

📒 1️⃣ What is Parallel Execution?
Running multiple tests at the same time
On:
Multiple emulators
Multiple real devices
To reduce execution time.

📒 2️⃣ Problem in Android Parallel
Default:
👉 UiAutomator2 uses a default port (systemPort)
If 2 sessions try to use same port:
❌ Port conflict
❌ Session creation fails
Error like:
Address already in use

📒 3️⃣ What is systemPort?
Each Android session must have:
👉 Unique systemPort
Example:
Device 1 → systemPort = 8200
Device 2 → systemPort = 8201
Without unique systemPort → parallel fails.

📒 4️⃣ How It Works Internally
Appium:
1️⃣ Uses ADB port forwarding
2️⃣ Connects Appium server to UiAutomator2 server
3️⃣ Uses systemPort for communication
If ports clash → communication breaks.

📒 5️⃣ Real Framework Practice
In advanced frameworks:
✔ Dynamically assign systemPort
✔ Map deviceName + port
✔ Use pytest-xdist for parallel

📒 6️⃣ Interview Question
Why does Android parallel require systemPort but iOS doesn’t?
Answer:
Because UiAutomator2 requires separate communication ports.

🚀 Topic 7: WebView / Hybrid App Context Handling
Very important if you test hybrid apps.

📒 1️⃣ What is Hybrid App?
Hybrid app =
👉 Native screens +
👉 WebView screens (HTML + CSS + JS inside app)
Example:
Login → Native
Payment page → WebView

📒 2️⃣ What is Context?
Appium works in different contexts:
Default context:
NATIVE_APP
If app contains WebView:
You will also see:
WEBVIEW_com.package.name

📒 3️⃣ How It Works Internally
When session starts:
👉 Appium starts in NATIVE_APP
If WebView loads:
👉 Appium detects WebView
👉 Uses Chromedriver internally
👉 Creates WebView context

📒 4️⃣ How Engineers Handle It
Steps:
1️⃣ Get available contexts
2️⃣ Switch to WebView context
3️⃣ Perform web automation
4️⃣ Switch back to native

📒 5️⃣ Important Capabilities
Sometimes need:
Correct Chromedriver version
WebView debugging enabled
If versions mismatch → session fails.

📒 6️⃣ Interview Questions
What is context in Appium?
Difference between context and activity?
Why do we need Chromedriver in hybrid apps?
How to switch back to native?


🚀 Phase 4 — Locators Deep Dive (Most Practical & Important)

Xpath using ancestor - (//com.horcrux.svg.SvgView/ancestor::android.view.ViewGroup[@clickable="true"])[2]
Xpath using parent - //com.horcrux.svg.SvgView/parent::android.view.ViewGroup     ( Goes one level up )
Xpath using following or preceding sibling -
                    //android.widget.TextView[@text="or, continue with"]/following-sibling::android.view.ViewGroup
                    //android.widget.TextView[@text="or, continue with"]/preceding-sibling::android.view.ViewGroup
Same parent → following-sibling::
Different parent / nested → following::

new UiSelector() supports many attributes.
Most useful ones:
✔ text()
✔ textContains()
✔ textStartsWith()
✔ resourceId()
✔ className()
✔ description() (content-desc)
✔ clickable(true)
✔ enabled(true)
✔ index() (avoid mostly)
✔ instance() (last option

Wait Statements in Appium:
-------------------------
✅ 1. visibility_of_element_located - Element is visible on screen 👉 Most common in mobile
✅ 2. presence_of_element_located - Element exists in DOM (may not be visible)
✅ 3. element_to_be_clickable    - Visible + enabled
✅ 4. invisibility_of_element    - Wait until element disappears (like loader)

For WebElement state checks, mainly:
👉 is_displayed()   - Checks if element is visible on screen.
👉 is_enabled()     - Checks if element is clickable / enabled.
👉 is_selected()    - Used for checkbox / radio button.
1️⃣ element.text     - title = driver.find_element(AppiumBy.ID, "title_id")
                      assert title.text == "Login or create an account"
2️⃣ get_attribute("checked")  -  checkbox = driver.find_element(AppiumBy.ID, "terms_checkbox")
                                assert checkbox.get_attribute("checked") == "true"
3️⃣ get_attribute("content-desc")
4️⃣ Activity / Package Validation

🔹 Pure App Lifecycle States Handling (Core)
It is the different states an app goes through while running on a mobile device.

🔹 Why we must handle it?
👉 App does not stay in one state.
👉 User actions + OS events change state anytime.
👉 If automation doesn’t handle state change → test fails.
👉 Lifecycle handling = stability + real-world simulation.

Main states:
1️⃣ App launch
2️⃣ App in foreground
3️⃣ Permission / popup (Paused)
4️⃣ App in background
5️⃣ App killed / crash

1️⃣ App Launch
🔹 What is it?
Starting the app process and bringing it to foreground active state.
In App Launch handling, we must consider:
    👉 Cold start
2️⃣ App in foreground  👉 Warm start
3️⃣ Permission / popup (Paused) - Handeled
4️⃣ App in background          - Handeled
5️⃣ App killed / crash         - Handeled

Next block would move into:
5️⃣ Permissions & System Interruptions   ( This is separate lifecycle test )   - Handeled
🔹 What are they?
External OS events that temporarily pause your app:
But full list of possible interruptions:
1️⃣ Notification panel
2️⃣ Incoming call
3️⃣ SMS popup
4️⃣ Low battery alert
5️⃣ Permission popup (already done)
6️⃣ App switch (recent apps)


BOTH
6️⃣ App Crash & ANR ( Application Not Responding ) (Very Important): ( Later we automate via pytest hook.)
In pytest + Appium, when a condition fails and you want to stop the test immediately, you can:
👉 Use assert
OR
👉 raise AssertionError
Both mark the test as FAILED and stop execution.
👉 Screenshot on crash
👉 Capture logcat
👉 Auto-run detector via pytest hook
👉 Retry strategy integration
But core part → Done 💪🚀
7️⃣ Logcat & Logs (Very Important for Debugging):
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:


8️⃣ Network Behavior (WiFi / Offline / Slow Internet):   - Handeled ( Advanced pending )
        🧱 Handeled while building frameworks:
   1️⃣ WiFi OFF / ON
   2️⃣ Offline handling in app
   3️⃣ Network drop mid-flow
   4️⃣ Slow internet simulation (basic)


9️⃣ OS Fragmentation & Screen Sizes (Very Important in Mobile):   - Handeled
✔ Run same flow on different Android versions
✔ Run on small / medium / large screens
✔ Make automation device-agnostic (scroll, waits, popup handling)


1️⃣0️⃣ Deep Links (Very Useful in Automation):    - ( Advanced pending )   - Deep Link not provided by DEV
In QA mobile automation, Deep Link = open a specific screen directly inside the app without normal navigation 👍

1️⃣2️⃣ Background Services & Notifications:   - Handeled


Pytest Hooks:
------------
1. Special functions that run automatically before/after tests without calling manually.
2.Yes bro ✅ — hooks go inside conftest.py.
👉 Because:
• Pytest auto-detects hooks there
• Applies to all tests
• No import needed
3.Core lifecycle = basic hooks needed 👍
        ✅ Background → foreground recovery (very important)
    Appium defines 5 possible states
    driver.query_app_state(package) returns number showing app state
    States:

    • 0 → Not installed
    • 1 → Not running
    • 2 → Running in background (suspended)
    • 3 → Running in background
    • 4 → Running in foreground ✅
4.Logcat & Logs (Very Important for Debugging):   ( Advanced Pending )
    Record always → store only on failure ✅    - Debugging from myside pending

5.8️⃣ Network Behavior (WiFi / Offline / Slow Internet):
        skip advanced network automation for now

6.1️⃣2️⃣ Background Services & Notifications:
        Advanced level means

App launch stability ✔ Done
Crash / ANR check ✔ Done
Background recovery ✔ Done
Permission handling ✔ Done
Network reset ✔ Basic done
👉 Core lifecycle = completed (intermediate level) 👍
OS fragmentation / screen sizes ✔ Basic done
Background services & notifications ✔ Basic done
Network handling (separate tests) ✔ Basic done

Framework Maturity
Screenshot on failure ❌ Pending 👉 Allure log attachment ❌ Pending
Log collection ❌ Pending        👉 Allure log attachment ❌ Pending
Retry failed tests ❌ Pending    👉 implement later when you see flaky failures
Test data cleanup ❌ Pending     👉 For now → skip cleanup ✔
Environment setup (dev/stage) ❌ Pending 👍 Implement later
Reporting (Allure attachments) ✔ Basic done

💪🚀 Advanced (Later):
Automatic network simulation ❌
Notification automation / deep links ❌
Parallel execution ❌
Device farm testing ❌
Smart retry / self-healing ❌
AI locators ❌ 👍

Reporting (Allure attachments) - Complete Allure Report Flow:
------------------------------------------------------------
Setup:
pip install allure-pytest
Allure commandline tool ---  npm install -g allure-commandline --save-dev

run =         pytest  tests/test_login.py --alluredir=allure_results
report =      allure serve allure_results
Run single test method   - pytest tests/test_login.py::TestLogin::test_valid_login --alluredir=allure-results

⭐ Level 1 (Most important)
Screenshot on failure auto attach    - Mandatory Done
Log file attachment                  - Mandatory Done
Page source attachment               - Mandatory Done
Video attachment (optional later)    - Optional
⭐ Level 2 (Test structuring)
Allure steps (@allure.step)
Test metadata
severity
story
feature
epic
Dynamic test title                   - All Mandatory ( AT last )
⭐ Level 3 (Debugging power)
Attach API request / response
Custom failure message attachment    - Later ( POM )
Attach device info / capabilities    - Done
⭐ Level 4 (Advanced reporting maturity)
Environment.properties (dev/stage info)    - Done
Categories.json (failure grouping)        -  Done
History trend (flaky tracking)            -  Later
Retry integration with Allure             -  Later
⭐ Level 5 (Senior level — later)
Automatic attachment decorator           - Done
Framework-level step wrapper             - Later
Correlation ID / trace logs in Allure    - Later
Video recording integration              - Optional

Virtual audio cable for voice automation:
----------------------------------------
1. Audio played on laptop / emulator
→ goes to CABLE Input
→ routed internally
→ comes as microphone input (CABLE Output)
→ emulator app receives it as mic input

Install VB-Audio Virtual Cable ( zip file )   -  Need real device Pending
-------------------------------------------

Top Test Execution Frameworks
Pytest    - Python
TestNG
JUnit
Mocha
Robot Framework   - Python

Top Design Frameworks / Patterns   ( All Python )
Page Object Model (POM)      -
Data Driven Framework        - Use when Data needs to be called from json ( recommended )
Keyword Driven Framework   - Used by robot framework
Hybrid Framework           - current implementation
BDD Framework  - Yes (using tools like Behave)

CICD IMPLEMENTATION:
-------------------
